# Chapter 1 : Introduction

## 2016-17

4.(c) ``Bassett Events`` is one of the famous event planning companies of the world. It has
two types of managers who organize events in different ways. Managers of first kind
have such employees who perform the job only after the managers have given them
necessary instructions related to organizing. This type of mangers usually hears the
whole plan from their clients, discusses with their employees, provides related
instructions and then assures the occurrence of the event. On the other hand, second
type of managers organize the event step by step listening to their clients, discuss with
their employees to check whether it is possible or not and makes the job of that
particular step done if it is possible. Now answer the followings. (4+6+6=16)

(i) Find similarities between these two type of managers with Complier and
Interpreter.

(ii) Give a brief comparison of the compilation and running process of a C,
Python and Java program.

(iii) Give a brief comparison of Compiler and Interpreter in respect to
performance and error diagnostic.

**Solution:**
i) Manager of first kind is similar to ``compiler`` and manager of second kind is similar to ``interpreter``.Because compiler works with given source file and makes it to target language and then run the input to produce output.Where interpreter takes source program file and input at the same time and execute the program file with given input stepwise.

ii) comparison of the compilation and running process of a C,
Python and Java program:

1. ``C`` : A c program file is compiled with c compiler.A c compiler takes input a file with extension ".c" and compiles it into targeted machine language.

2. ``java`` : Java program is compiled with a hybrid compiler. A compiler firstly converts java source code to byte code(.class extenson) and then with input it runs on **java virtual machine(JVM)** which interprets with targeted machine language.In order to achieve faster processing of inputs to outputs,some Java compilers, called just-in-time compilers,translate the bytecodes into machine language immediately before they run the intermediate program toprocess the input.

3. ``python`` : Python uses python interpreter which interprets python code line by line and execute it with input.

iii) Comparison of compiler and interpreter :

1. The machine-language target program produced by a compiler is usually much faster than an interpreter at mapping inputs to outputs.

2. An interpreter, however, can usually give better error diagnostics than a compiler, because it executes the source program statement by statement.

## 2014-15

4.(a) Explain in detail the following statements. (5+ 10)

(i) "Java language processors combine compilation and interpretation".

(ii) "The front end of a compiler is concerned about the source language, while the
back end of the compiler is concerned about the target machine. The intermediate
representation, between the two, is concerned neither about the source language, nor
about the target machine".

**Solution:**

 i) Java program is compiled with a hybrid compiler. A compiler firstly converts java source code to byte code(.class extenson) and then with input it runs on **java virtual machine(JVM)** which interprets with targeted machine language.In order to achieve faster processing of inputs to outputs,some Java compilers, called just-in-time compilers,translate the bytecodes into machine language immediately before they run the intermediate program toprocess the input.

 ii)The front end of compiler processes the source language.It checks the lexical correctness of the source program and output lexemes.Then syntex analyzer checks the syntex of the source program is right or not,it uses lexemes generated by lexical anylyzer and outputs syntex tree. And then syamantic analyzer checks symantically correctness of the source program and output a syntex tree and then intermediate code generation takes the input of the syntex tree.It is not concerned about the source code ,nor about the target machine.It makes a machine independent intermediate code representation which can be converted in any machine language.And this is done by the back end of the compiler.

## 2013-14

5.(c)Briefly explain how java language processor works.What is in tine compiler

**Solution:** Java program is compiled with a hybrid compiler. A compiler firstly converts java source code to byte code(.class extenson) and then with input it runs on **java virtual machine(JVM)** which interprets with targeted machine language.In order to achieve faster processing of inputs to outputs,some Java compilers, called just-in-time compilers,translate the bytecodes into machine language immediately before they run the intermediate program toprocess the input.

(d) Briefly describe the role of following components in context of compiler :

1. Preprocessor

2. Linker

3. Loader

**Solution:** The role of following components in context of compiler :

1. ``Preprocessor`` : The task of collecting the source program is sometimes entrusted to a separate program, called a preprocessor.The preprocessor may also expand shorthands, called macros, into source language statements.

    The preprocessor provides the ability for:

    * the inclusion of header files,

    * macro expansions,

    * conditional compilation, and

    * line control.

2. ``Linker`` : Large programs are often compiled in pieces, so the relocatable machine code may have to be linked together with other relocatable object files and library files into the code that actually runs on the machine. The linker resolves external memory addresses, where the code in one file may refer to a location in another file.

3. ``Loader`` : The loader then puts together all of the executable object files into memory for execution.
